Knowledge check

----------- SVG -----------

1. What is the xmlns attribute?

r: it's a way to call svg language to an HTML page. (without this some browsers will not render the image or it will have some issues.)

2. What are some situations where you wouldn't want to use SVG?

r: When i need to use high quality images or photorealistic ones that have a lot of details.

3. What are the benefits of "inlining" your SVGs? What are the drawback?

r: The potential to use how you want the image in question because we have the code to project it into a webpage. But also makes the webpage slow
    in some situations and hard readable to all users(code).

----------- TABLES -----------

1. What is a table?

r: it's a structure that allows to display information with rows and columns.

2. Why is it a bad idea to use HTML Tables for page layour ?

r: Because tables aren't responsive in some situations leading to a bad looking webpage.

3. What are caption elements useful for?

r: These are useful to make more readable our tables, you can use it as titles.

4. What is the scope attribute?

r: They are to a column more readable, with this screen readers use the entire column or row at once

----------- DEFAULT STYLES -----------

1. Why would you want to use a CSS reset?

r: I would use it to make my webpage to be the same in any browser. Makes a default configuration to my CSS file.

2. Are resets required?

r: Depends on the developer because it doesn't have a major impact in the page, but it helps to make a standard look between web browsers.

----------- CSS UNITS -----------

1. Why would you want to use em or rem for font-size instead of px?

r: it's recommended because em and rem are relative to the element parent,so if the parent is 16px and i use 2em the final result will be 16 * 2 = 32px 
otherwise with rem only depends on the root element doing the same math. (rem > em)

2. What are some instances where you might want to use vh and vw ?

r: It's good to use them when we need to size something relative to the windows size.

3. What are some instances where you might want to use px instead of a relative unit?

r: it's commonly used to everything else except font-size.

----------- More Text Styles -----------

1. What are the 2 ways to add fonts that are not installed on a user's computer?

r: By using web fonts we can use external API to retreive fonts data, as well we can use
online font libraries that gives you a code you can copy into your CSS file.

2. What is the 'system font stack' and why you want to use it?

r: It's the system own library of fonts that we can use as backup. If we don't use this
method and can't load external fonts from other websites, the default font will be displayed.

3. Which property would you use to increase or decrease the space between letters in a word?

r: letter-spacing.

4. Which property would you use to increase or decrease the space between lines in a paragraph ?

r: line-height.

----------- More CSS Properties -----------

1. Which property would you use to make an element transparent?

r: opacity.

2. Which property would you use to make a background image tile?

r: background: url("/ruta")
background-image: 

3. Which property would you use to add scrollbars to an element?

r: overflow.

4. Which property would you use to add a shadow behind an element?

r: box-shadow.

5. Which property would you use to create rounded corners on an element?

r: border-radius

6. How would you use border-radius to make a circular element?

r: border-radius: 100%;

----------- Advanced Selectors -----------

1. What is the difference between the child combinator and the descendant combinator?

r: The child combinator only selects direct children element (one level of identation down) 
unlike descendant combinator that actually selects all the child elements.

2. How does the syntax of pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements differ?

r: Pseudo classes: ":hover" Pseudo-elements: "::marker"

3. Do pseudo-classes exist somewhere in HTML? Do pseudo-elements?

r: They don't exist in HTML because they are only used to style them.

4. Name two ways you could select every second child of an element, starting with the first.

r: div:nth-child(2n-1) and div:nth-child(odd).

5. What is the difference between div:first-child and div:last-child? What will each select?

r:  The div:first-child only select the first div element and div:last-child select the last one. 

6. What selector would you use to style a button a user is currently hovering over? How about one that is currently being clicked on?

r: :hover and :active

7. How could you select all input elements with a type of text?

r: [attribute="value"]

8. How could you select all classes that begin with thunder?

r: [class^="thunder"]

----------- Positioning -----------

1. What is the difference between static and relative positioning?

r: Static is the default positioning of an element and always follows the same direction (down) and relative
follows the same behaviour but we can adjust the top, bottom, left and right positioning.

2. What is absolute positioning useful for?

r: To remove an element of the actual flow. Don't affect other elements where it is placed.
(Good for icons, images with captions, etc.)

3. What is the difference between fixed and sticky positioning?

r: Fixed is always at the same position unlike sticky that it can be placed where we want but being scroll down make it
fixed to the top of the page.

----------- CSS Functions -----------

1. What are the four CSS math functions we covered above?

r: calc(), min(), max() and clamp().

2. How do we use CSS math functions in our CSS?

r: They do the math when it is needed to resize elements of the webpage. 

3. How can CSS functions help make websites and applications more responsive?

r: By doing precise changes to the elements. Like setting the max size that texts will have, the minimal size of an image 
or the entire padding of an element by changing the size of the window.

----------- Custom Properties -----------

1. How would you declare a custom property with a name of text-color?

r: --text-color: white; -> declare.
color: var(--text-color) -> using the value.

2. How would you access a custom property with a name of background-color?

r: --background-color: white -> declare.
background-color: var(--background-color) -> using the value

3. Where would you declare a custom property to have its scope be global and accessible by all other selectors?

r: class.

4. Where would you declare a custom property so that a user’s theme setting from their OS or browser was taken into account?

r: root.

----------- Browser Compatibility -----------

1. What is the most used browser currently?

r: Google Chrome and Chromium.

2. What was the original name of the first web browser?

r: WorldWideWeb browser.

3. How are mobile browsers different on Apple mobile operating systems from Android?

r: In Apple there are no web browsers using chromium to make it more compatible with the standards because Apple
devices use WebKit as a rendering engine.

----------- Frameworks and Preprocessors -----------

1. What are CSS frameworks?

r: They are a bundle of CSS classes that make the desing of a webpage faster than starting in a blank one.

2. What are CSS preprocessors?

r: Make the creation of a CSS more easy by allowing to write loops and conditionals in multiple stylesheets.
It's an extension to vanilla CSS with more functionalities but when starts running transform the code into CSS.

----------- Form Basics -----------

1. Explain what the form element is for and what two attributes it should always include.

r: Forms need always to have an action attribute that allow to send all the data collected in the form to an specific url
the other attribute is method wich tell the browser request method like GET (get data) and POST (send data).

2. Explain what form controls are at a high level.

r: To start, input elements is the most versatile of all because it can retreive any information, select is good to
make a user select a predefined value, checkbox allows the user select multiple predefined alternatives and radio shows
a group of alternatives but only one of the group can be selected.

3. What is the name attribute for?

r: To give a name to the inputs given from a user.

4. What are the three most common form controls you can use for allowing users to select predefined options?

r: Select, checkbox and radio.

5. What are the three types of buttons in HTML?

r: Submit, reset and button.

6. What are the two most challenging aspects of styling forms?

r: The default view of a form is different between all the web browsers and the other challenge in styling them come 
from radio, buttons, callendar and checkboxes.

----------- Form Validation -----------

1. What does the required validation do?

r: It helps to don't let a variable empty.

2. What validations can you use for checking text length?

r: min-length and max-length.

3. How can you validate the minimum and maximum of numeric inputs?

r: min and max.

4. What can you use the pattern validation for?

r: It can be used to detect if a text input is entered as the page wanted. For example a zip code that has 4 numbers separated
with a hypen followed by other 5 numbers.

5. What pseudo CSS selectors are available for styling valid and invalid inputs?

r: :valid and :invalid.
